Front-End Web Development
5. How Does the Internet Actually Work?
ISP : internet service provider that connects you from one server to another.

DNS : Domain name server this will have all the IP address that you want to have access from youe ISP's.

Every Computer has there own IP adresses, That we can have access. we can connect from 1 server(computer) to another server(computer) Using there IP's.

Internet is just like connecting one computer with the another on a wider scale.

nsloopup.io https://www.nslookup.io/ this is a site where you can get the ip addresses of all the websites




Front-End Web Development
6. How Do Websites Actually Work?
Internet Simply connects client computer to the Server Computer.

Every websites have 3 basics file : Html, Css & JS

(Understand by the example of a house)

Html : Structure of the site i.e. bricks, shapes, buttons, wires, building block, foundation,etc.

Css : It is the designing and beautification part. i.e. Colour, size, textures, design, etc.

JS : Functionality i.e. a light bulb, the doorbell, coocker, stoves.

This helps us to maintain the seperations of concerns.

Html for Structure(content)

Css for Design

Js for Functionality.

we can inspect the websites which will give us web developer tools.




Front-End Web Development
7. How to Get the Most Out of the Course
Tips for better learning :-



1. Do not Code along, instead watch for 10 min and then try to code by your own and understand the purpose of the code.

2. We are learning programming and not how to type fast, for typing speed use https://www.keybr.com/.

3. Make your own notes using Cornell method pdf is in the resources.

4. Change the speed as per your requirement.

5. Bookmark the module you struggle to keep up with so that you come back to it.

6. Practice = Mastery. The more you practice the more you learn.

7. If you stuck, learn to rest and not Quit. Learn to use the resources and fix the issues that you have .




1. Front-End Web Development
8. How to Get Help When You're Stuck
How to get yourself out of the situation where you stuck :-



1. Think of what you expected and what actually happened and try to find what is actually making the difference. It is Expectation vs Reality.

2. Re-watch the Lectures where you are facing the issues.

3. Compare your code vs with the mentors Code.

4. Q&A sections ask the questions or find if someone else had faced the same issue or not.

- What did you expected ?

- What actually happened ?

- Screenshot of the code ?

- Screenshot of the debug console ?